Augmented Triplet Network for Individual
Organism and Unique Object Classiﬁcation for
Reliable Monitoring of Ezoshika Deer
1stY ojiro Harie
Department of Integrated Media
Wakkanai Hokusei Gakuen University
1-2290-28 Wakabadai, Wakkanai, Hokkaido, Japan
y-harie@wakhok.ac.jp2ndSangam Babu Neupane
Department of Integrated Media
Wakkanai Hokusei Gakuen University
1-2290-28 Wakabadai, Wakkanai, Hokkaido, Japan
sangam18@wakhok.ac.jp
3rdBishnu Prasad Gautam
Department of Economic Informatics
Kanazawa Gakuen University
10 Suemachi, Kanazawa, Ishikawa, Japan
gautam@kanazawa-gu.ac.jp4thShiratori Norio
Research and Development Initiative
Chuo University
1-13-27 Kasuga, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo, Japan
norio@riec.tohoku.ac.jp
Abstract —Wild Deer’s grazing in farmers and villager’s ﬁeld
has caused serious troubles for the residents and concerned
authorities here in Northern Hokkaido of Japan. Furthermore,
the number of deer in northern Japan is increasing rapidly
leading to increment in road accidents which is also becoming
a serious problem that needs to be handled. Several procedures
have been followed to avoid or at least minimize the destruction
caused by the white-tailed deer, but a solid solution is yet to
be found. To this context, we are proposing a highly effective
solutions to identify the individual wild deer and pinpoint the
most trouble causing group of deer’s using augmented triplet
network, a novel technique of computer vision. Initially the deer
are recognized and classiﬁed individually which will help us track
the deer and know the behavior of the deer in depth. Our research
method identiﬁes individual deer using several steps where we
initially take video feed which is further divided into several
frames. The extracted frames are then cleaned and processed for
the training efﬁciency. The cleaned frames are then sent to the
Convolution Network where the Nested triplet loss is calculated
for the maximum accuracy.
Index T erms —Triplet Loss, Augmented Triplet Network,
Unique Individual Detection, Metric Learning
I. I NTRODUCTION
The number of Ezo Sika deer ( Cervus nippon yesoensis )
in Japan has been increasing rapidly. The damage caused by
Ezo Sika deer ranges from collisions with deer, impact on
vegetation, and damage to agriculture and forestry. In order to
prevent such kinds of damage, it is necessary to manage not
only the number of deer’s in a systematic manner but also to
conduct population surveys and monitoring scientiﬁcally. The
indices are used to calculate the number of individuals applied
aerial surveys, visual counts by hunters, number of captures,
and number of sightings. The objectives of this study are of
two folds: (1) to investigate the behavior of the same individual
(group) and ʢ2) to automate the counting of individuals. Weadopted the triplet loss model, which is one of the machine
learning models, to identify the same individual.
Then, we propose the Augmented Triplet loss(A TL) model
in section III. A TL is a model that learns to clearly distinguish
between groups that are close in distance in embedded space.
Fig. 1 shows the overall picture of this research. Firstly, we
explain the data-processing part. We have used the Raspberry
Pi and cameras. The server will be crowded with masses of
images and will be less efﬁcient. Thus to minimize the data
overload in the server, the Raspberry Pi is programmed to
send only the feed while the camera captures a deer during
the surveillance. Secondly, we collected video images of Ezo
Sika deer from a ﬁxed-point camera set up outdoors. Then, we
automatically extract frames from the video images and label
them. We classiﬁed the image dataset into training data and
test data. Then, from the obtained training data, we train CNNs
and train classiﬁcations using the Triplet loss function. After a
certain number of Mis exceeded, the proposed loss function
called Augmented Triplet loss(A TL) is used for training. The
details of A TL are explained in Section III. A TL is designed
to reduce the learning time and memory cost of the existing
triplet loss. In this study, we classiﬁed images of Ezo Sika deer,
but it can be applied to various types of image classiﬁcation.
II. R ESEARCH ISSUES
The main research issue in this work is how to determine
the individual deer and how to recognize the most problematic
group of deer so that the precaution measures can be designed
more properly. To determine the individual deer, we need to
discriminate it by using distance as a core metric. For our
research content, we needed to ﬁnd the differences between the
individual deer’s depending on different features. The measure
of distance between the anchors need to be calculated in order
1972021 Ninth International Symposium on Computing and Networking Workshops (CANDARW)
978-1-6654-2835-4/21/$31.00 ©2021 IEEE
DOI 10.1109/CANDARW53999.2021.000392021 Ninth International Symposium on Computing and Networking Workshops (CANDARW) | 978-1-6654-2835-4/21/$31.00 ©2021 IEEE | DOI: 10.1109/CANDARW53999.2021.00039
Authorized licensed use limited to: Suwa University of Science. Downloaded on July 07,2025 at 07:06:05 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 